hey folks it is January night 2024 back
for a new year of protocol fun and I
click my Brady Bunch view so we can see
all of our faces so we have updates this
this community call is taking place
monthly now and we did this month a week
late in part so that we could have this
moment of introducing you to that change
in our team that's upcoming um and
because we don't get a lot done over the
holidays but we have updates from the
whole look for you today and staffing
changes and a cool update on the docks
the dock site which is great so we're
looking forward to sharing so let's get
started here so first thing I want to do
is welcome our newest team member you
won't take a sec to introduce yourself
yes sure
I'm just and I'm currently in Dubai and
I'm I'm with the moxie team so close
with Fangio and yeah looking forward to
helping the Perot school website yeah
here and it's been great you've been
taking a lot of initiative and jumping
right in on stuff and already crank and
stuff out so it's awesome to have you
the sad news is that the reason we have
josée is really nice to go to another
project
so Jill you've been awesome to work with
we've had such a great time with you and
your work like getting the files the
regular files API thing out in
particular and tons of work under the
hood that's going to help with all of
the errors and stuff people will be able
to see it when it's going right but it
will make a huge difference when things
are going wrong under the hood to help
us diagnose so that's been great we're
sad to be moving you um all right let's
hop into actually I'll do this first
because otherwise I will forget
you share my screen for second so this
is the new so this doc stash faded ipfs
tayo um is the new ipfs documentation
site which is really nicely formatted a
lot of the nav structure has changed
here there's nice search this search for
right now pulls from headers within the
docs so you can get directly to like
looking for um and one of the cool
things here I'm trying to think which
yeah so there are pages here for missing
content um and there are actually
brownies out on some of this content
Johnny Matthews who's running this
documentation effort is looking for
volunteers to help contribute content so
you'll see on this on pages like this
like hey this is a topic we know we need
and we put it in the right place in the
nav structure for you but we need help
writing the page or we'd love feedback
on how important is this is you those
kinds of things and then on any of the
pages you'll see a lot of links at the
bottom where you can suggest new content
if you find a typo you can quickly get
right to github to either open an issue
or just go ahead and help us fix the
typo so I just wanted to share this work
from our colleagues on the broader ipfs
team because it's really helpful and
this is a resource for any of you who
are leading proto school events that you
can share with your share with your
users your learners that they can use as
well and there are links now so if we go
to just the normal we go to the normal
site you'll see that there are on each
page there's sort of a way to get over
to the new version of it so moving
forward I think we'll be trying to make
the make adjustments on the new site and
probably not refreshing the stuff here
but just want to let people know that
that's happening it's super cool so
congrats to the whole Doc's team that's
been working on that and now let's get
into our personal update so a couple of
things on the kind of content
development front
I one of the things that I've done we've
had an issue going for a while to kind
of figure out what content from ipfs
camp 2019 is most applicable to proto
school and jill and i did a lot of work
to figure out what that is and we've
taken a few steps towards that so
there's a link in the notes here to the
summary of our plan which links out to
specific issues on for example new
tutorials or UX improvements that we can
make based on some of that stuff but one
of the things that we have done is in
the resources pages now you'll find both
the life cycle of data on the D web
course and the how ipfs deals with files
courses included those are awesome
videos that are really easy to follow
along with if you don't have to be
coding as you go very beginner friendly
so those are things if you were looking
for someone to just show at your chapter
you could even play one of those videos
at one of your events if you wanted to
that's a great context there and there
are also links to slide decks that you
can find in other places as well if you
want to look at the source materials for
those so just a little bit on content
development this month but we have great
plans ahead for new content based on a
mostly based on those two tutorials
actually those two workshops have great
beginner friendly stuff so we'll
probably start using our multiple choice
format for some of those where the
coding exercises aren't quite the right
choice for it there's a little there
will be a lot of conceptual stuff about
what is pinning and how do we actually
request stuff from peers on the network
those are a lot of the questions that we
get from new folks so looking forward to
making some content on that as we go um
next up so kind of learner experience
and UX type things stuff under the hood
and one of our users discovered that we
were completely missing a page like the
last page in the lesson was just not
read Harry never it was getting jumped
right over to the resources page so
after we fix that I added a new test to
decipher us to make sure that we're
actually rendering all of the pages that
exist which same twice so we have we
have blocked ourselves
making more errors like that in the
future and and we also have a few things
that we need to retrofit and their IP FS
continues to improve as we go along and
we need to kind of keep up with those
changes so quite a while ago now and it
became no longer necessary if you use
that to base encoded string to get the
sort of string hash value out of a CID
object you can just now use string and
and some of our some of our lessons in
the bag tutorials were displaying big
objects in an unnecessary way when all
we needed was a CID so I've gone back
and retrofitted those and then Jill you
want to share what you've been up to
yeah so I added in the point where I've
been working on a way to in the catch
hole errors where the problem may be
from a very firm from a validation issue
from the from the lesson we've had a
link to create negative github issue
with the code already in the issue
itself so the user has more of it's not
an easy time to create the issue
so let's improve the validation yeah
it's awesome and I like the distinction
that's made there and Alex
pottsy days opens a PR that were still
kind of adding to with a lot of this
extra error handling under the hood and
one of the important things it does help
us distinguish between different kinds
of errors like there's a big difference
between you gave the wrong answer to
this problem and we're giving you this
error to tell you what you did wrong
versus well we built this whole thing
wrong whoever authored the tutorial
forgot about something when they were
putting in their condition was from
validation etc so this is great for
helping us discover what the right thing
is so we can provide really useful
feedback to the user so that's awesome
and the library that you found Jill to
help us like put the code pre-fill that
I think after we merged
one and we'll be able to go back to some
of the other places where we're
pre-populating issues and add them just
to other kinds of lesson feedback ones
other than the arrogance late so that'll
be awesome and then say you want to tell
us about what you're up to
yeah so I basically I'm working on
actually I just wrapped up so almost
ready to deploy having your community
Lori congratulatory message the user
that they completed a tutorial and then
a link to share on Twitter so that you
can actually feel accomplished for
finishing that's sort of actually when I
tried it I kind of felt like a nice
that's not yeah that's awesome
we have we we have asked people when
they offer the tutorials to make the
success message on the last one say
something about the fact that they've
completed all of them and there are you
know check marks coming on the main
screen for the tutorial those kinds of
things but it's great to have something
that's popping a little bit more to say
congratulations and give people a chance
like share the love on social so easily
so it's awesome that you've been able to
pull that together really quickly um so
next step some updates in the on the
community side and so a couple of things
that are really important if you're a
chapter leader watching this if you look
now at the resources page within our
organizing repo and you'll find a new
section on event materials and there are
a couple of things there that are useful
some of which are new this month and
some of which you might have missed last
month so one is a proto school branded
slide deck template that's super
flexible on Agata on the team here at
protocol labs put that together for
people there are formats for Google
slides or PowerPoint or a keynote
whichever you're using really easy to
edit and so if you're looking to just
make some kind of introductory talk that
you do at the beginning of your thing
before you have people try the tutorials
if that's something that you can use
taps just be careful about making sure
you're replacing other people's
bios or what you know whatever you see
somebody's maids replace it with your
face all that kind of stuff but it
should be pretty self-explanatory and
the other thing you'll find there is
links out to presentation materials that
people are comfortable with you using so
one of the links you'll see goes to the
IP FS community repo and they're Molly
McKinley has put up a new list of
presentations that can be shared and
reused so some of those are the two that
I mentioned earlier the workshops where
you have the videos there or the slide
decks but one of them is a talk on I
think it's called how ipfs works
approximately and that's by Steven Allen
he delivered it I think that in Osaka at
a meet-up in October and our video guy
has taken that and made it really nice
you can see the slides next to Steven
Hawking and then we've provided an
editable version of the slide deck so
you as a chapter leader can review that
see what it's like when someone delivers
it and then take those slides edit them
as you need to and then deliver that
yourself if that's something that you
think your users would find helpful
we know there's there's a lot of you who
want to incorporate other formats of
content besides just the proto school
tutorials so trying to make that
possible and we're using this linking
strategy intentionally as opposed to
copying the presentations onto our site
so that we're not trying to keep things
up to date in multiple places but if you
know of other great presentations that
people may want to use feel free to
submit a and a PR to suggest things to
add that we can link out to sort of
great resources so take a look at that
that same resources page also has
information on things like
and creating a welcoming environment
with your code of conduct how to get
proto school stickers to give out at
your events all those kinds of things if
you haven't checked it out yet please do
also um the Seattle chapter I think
probably within the month added notes to
the discussion in the organizing repo on
hosting our first event what worked well
what can be improved etc and that's a
great thread for anybody who's just
getting started um
and we have a few new chapter requests
in we have two from India one from
Florida and States and we have some
older ones and the next steps on those
we're actually waiting on a review of
the results of our local leadership
survey so huge thanks to everyone
whether you're a chapter leader or
someone who's interested in becoming one
or um teaching proto school in other
places we have great feedback from that
and we're gonna review that and see what
it is that folks need moving forward if
we're providing you the resources you
want if you're finding the existence of
these chapter repos helpful to you or if
they're actually adding more work to you
et cetera so our goal is to make sure
that we can really scale community
growth as we move forward and Josie and
I will probably be building out some
tools and changing the website in a few
ways to create more of that ability for
you as we move forward so stay tuned
hopefully by our meeting in February
we'll have a bit more information for
you on what the plans are there um and I
think that's what we have for you today
anything else that you to think
so looking forward to catching up with
more of you and then it's time to come
oh one other thing I should mention we
do have an issue open there is a request
to document what it's like like what are
the best practices for hosting teaching
a proto school tutorial one of our
traditional coding tutorials as a live
event making it really easy for people
to get started with that both if you
were you know there's the issue of
running a whole chapter over time which
is its own thing to manage and has its
own requirements but we're looking for
documentation on just what is it like to
transform that digital experience into a
live experience with mentorship in the
room and there was a session that ipfs
camp on on community stewardship led by
a few of our chapter leaders which was
awesome and there's sort of a subset of
that topic that would kind of be
expanded on this so in our organizing
repo there's an issue there and we're
looking for volunteers who have done
this successfully using our tutorial
content as the main content of their
events who can start drafting up some of
those best practices and that's
something that could be a team effort if
a couple people want to collaborate on
it so please chime in there if that's
something that you're able to help out
with the awesome great well thank you
everybody I'm super excited to welcome
you josée and super excited super sad to
lose you but you've been awesome and
we're looking forward to a great year
ahead so what's that you all later